## How to lose your traffic in 24 hours.
#### Summary
On 10/11/2023 at 11:23 AM GMT+1 an outrage was discovered, impacting the usual traffic coming toward our server. It impacted thousands of faithful clients, slowed the traffic down, and caused losses up to thousands of dollars. The users that regularly access and use our services were experiencing frustration, anger, and second thoughts about weather our services benefit them. The bottom of the problem comes from our servers not being able to serve clients their requests due to requests returning 500 status codes.
#### Timeline
The problem of the server not being able to serve clients rested for up to 24 hours, and the issue was detected on the 10th of November, GMT+1. We discovered the issue after monitoring the alert. We followed a group of suspected mechanisms, At first, we couldn't recognize the problem, But it turned out to be clearer afterward. Right after recognizing the issue, we alerted clients that our service would be down for a while, leaving us time to work on fixing the problem. The misleading path taken was that we looked for the problem in another server. Right after the discovery, the incident was redirected to the debugging team. The debugging team checked for errors in the first file that the webserver accessed, which was index.html, that file led us to a path of php files, and the error was finally detected to be in the file "wp-settings.php".
#### Root cause and resolution
There were settings files that index.html was redirecting to, or using in some way. The file contain a problem of syntax that led to a bigger problem that caused us to lose money,  users... The problem was resolved by following the path of the linked files to the index and checking each of the files for errors. Until we found that there was a syntax problem in the file "wp-settings.php". The problem was so simple, and it was using "phpp" instead of "php". W simply replaced "phpp" with "php". That did the trick.
#### Corrective and preventative
The preventative measures placed were a better monitoring service to be notified whenever a problem like this arose. The service is [datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/). Datadog is a popular cloud monitoring and observability platform that provides monitoring, logging, and analytics for applications deployed in the cloud. It allows organizations to collect and correlate data from various sources, such as servers, databases, applications, and other systems, to gain insights into the performance and health of their infrastructure. So while using [datadog](https://www.datadoghq.com/), we decided to monitor our web server Apache, our application's database, and much more.
